C1: Gold Mine - Chapter 1

The mine can be thought of as a rooted tree, with one node per cave, the root
being node 1, and each tunnel corresponding to an edge.

Assuming N>1, Minerva's route will consist of driving along the path from node 1
to some other node a, drilling a tunnel to some other node b (potentially with
b=1), and finally driving along the path from node b to node 1. Any given node
pair (a,b) is valid if and only if no undirected edge is traversed multiple
times (in other words, the path from node 1 to node a shares no edges in common
with the path from node b to node 1). For such a path, the total weight of gold
ore collected is equal to the sum of C values across all nodes which are part of
at least one of the two paths.

We can observe that a choice of (a,b) is valid if and only if either b=1, or a
and b lie within the subtrees of different children of node 1. If they were to
both lie within the subtree of the same child c of node 1, then both paths would
include the undirected edge between nodes 1 and c, which would be invalid.

We can also observe that the only node which will be part of both paths is node
1, and that the direction of each path is irrelevant (with both paths
essentially being interchangeable). If we let F(i) be the sum of C values on the
path between node 1 and node i, then the total weight of gold ore collected will
be F(a)+F(b)−C_1.

Let G(i) be the maximum value of F(j) for any node j in node i's subtree
(including i itself). We can recursively compute the F and G values for all N
nodes in O(N) time, based on the recurrences F(i)=F(P_i)+C_i (where P_i is node
i's parent) and G(i) equalling the maximum of F(i) and of G(c) (for each of node
i's children c).

Putting everything together, if node 1 has fewer than two children, the final
answer will be G(1), while the answer will otherwise be G(c_1)+G(c_2)−C_1, where
c_1 and c_2 are the two distinct children of node 1 which yield the largest G
values. It's also possible to arrive at a similar result without explicitly
computing F and G separately.

See David Harmeyer's solution video here.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V1p4ZX-uDM8
